# Blink Led STM32f103

A template to start projects with the STM32F1xx family on linux using makefile, having static analysis and unit tests. The initial example will be the flashing of a led.

## Prerequisites


First you need to clone this repository on your machine.

```
$ git clone https://github.com/rafaellcoellho/blink-led-stm32f103.git
```

To analyze the code according to the linux kernel code style, the perl checkpatch script is used. In the scripts folder use dowload.sh to download directly from /torvalds/linux/scripts. Thanks to riboseinc who write the [script](https://github.com/riboseinc/checkpatch).

```
$ cd scripts/
$ ./download.sh
```

The static analysis of the code is done through cppcheck. It is open source and the repository is here in [github](https://github.com/danmar/cppcheck). If you use ubuntu 14+ or some distro based on it, you can install using:

```
$ sudo apt-get install cppcheck
```

The tests are done with [CppUTest](https://github.com/cpputest/cpputest). You need to run the setup-cpputest.sh script in the scripts folder. It will download the test framework inside the project tree.

```
$ cd scripts/
$ ./setup-cpputest.sh
```
Let's use the gcc toolchain for ARM. You must install the compiler, assembler, linker, and some utilities.

```
$ apt-get install gcc-arm-none-eabi binutils-arm-none-eabi libnewlib-arm-none-eabi
```

## Directories

- build - All files generated by the compilation are here.
- cpputest - The cpputest project, downloaded and compiled by `setup-cpputest.sh`.
- drivers - All libraries for the stm32.
- scripts - All scripts written in shell required for the environment.
- src - Where the application src goes, only platform independent code here.
- src_stm32 - Where platform dependent code goes, where X is the name of the platform.
- src_tests - Code in c ++ to be tested with the cpputest framework.

## Usage

The make tool tries to run all the scripts needed to build, test, and analyze the code.

```
make analysis       -> run checkpatch in src and src_stm32
make tests          -> test plataform independent in src
make tests_coverage -> run lcov
make runnable       -> create the .elf .bin and .hex
make clean          -> clean the proj
```

To add new files to the project, you must include them in the build script (MakeRunnable.mk file). If you include direct files in the src or src_stm32 folders, go to the C_SOURCES variable and add the file name with the path to it at the end. Example:

```makefile
C_SOURCES:= \
src_stm32/main.c \
[...]
src/helloWorld.c # <- New file to compile with the proj
```

If you want to create a folder to separate the files from the others, you must not only change the C_SOURCES, but also SOURCES_DIR and C_INCLUDES with the path.

Considering that I have placed the helloWorld.c and helloWorld.h files in src/hello/, we need to make the following changes:

```makefile
SOURCES_DIR:=  \
src_stm32 \
[...]
src/hello
```

```makefile
C_SOURCES:= \
src_stm32/main.c \
[...]
src/hello/helloWorld.c
```

```makefile
C_INCLUDES =  \
-Isrc_stm32 \
[...]
-Isrc/hello
```

Making those changes unnecessary is an improvement for the future.

## Authors

* **Rafael Coelho** - [rafaellcoellho](https://github.com/rafaellcoellho)
